Problem Statement:

The major challenge in this project is to rename all the files in a directory. But users may
only need to name a certain number of files. You can implement a feature to allow users to
choose the number of files to be renamed, instead of all the files.
Also, instead of a script, you can build a file manager like UI to select the files.
Note that renaming only a certain number of files will require the tool to sort the files
based on alphabetical order, time of file creation, or file size, depending on the user’s
requirements.


Solution:

How to Run:

To run this project, the user must have python 3.x installed in his/her system. Apart from 
that, the user also must have to assign python-path to the environmental variable.
Now open terminal or cmd (for windows user) and install "Flask" library by using 'pip install 
flask'. Now, go to the directory where the python files are placed.
Run the python file by using "python Bulk_rename.py", open your browser and search for URL 
'http://localhost:5000'.


About Flask:

Flask is a lightweight WSGI web application framework. It is designed to make getting started 
quick and easy, with the ability to scale up to complex applications. It began as a simple 
wrapper around Werkzeug and Jinja and has become one of the most popular Python web application 
frameworks. Flask offers suggestions but doesn't enforce any dependencies or project layout. 
It is up to the developer to choose the tools and libraries they want to use. There are many 
extensions provided by the community that makes adding new functionality easy.



Features From Project 1:

01. Users can choose the directory where the files to be renamed are. 
02. Program doesn't end after executing the task. It again asks about the new path. It prevents 
	the user to run the tool again and again.
03. Lower digits number are prefixed with zeros so that it doesn't create a mess on sorting. 
	For eg., if there are a total of 500 files in a folder and user want to rename them, 
	then the counting starts from 001 and ends on 500. If there are 5000 files then it goes 
	from 0001 to 5000 etc.
04. Users are able to give there convenient naming convention, but also this tool prevents to 
	give special characters like ? / \ . Only available special characters are - _ ( ) { } [ ]
05. This tool first checks that if a given path exists or not. Also, it must have a path to 
	a directory (not to a particular file).
06. This tool also checks whether the directory is empty or not as well as user accessibility.
07. Follow Windows operating system standards to rename the files if one or more filenames 
	already exist.
08. Ask user confirmation before renaming the files.
09. This tool supports very good use of exception handling.
10. Faster and easy to use.


Extra Features:

01. Web-based user-friendly UI file manager.
02. User can now select one or more files to rename according to their need.
03. Files can be sorted based on alphabetical order, last modified date-time, or file size 
	depending on the user’s	requirements.
04. User can now search a particular file/folder by their name, last modified date, or size 
	from the current list.
05. User can now travel to the path from one folder to another.
06. Direct access to every drive available on the system.
07. User-friendly flash messages of errors and success.